Mention callbacks and threading in Objective C guide (#4194)
dart-lang/site-www: src/_guides/libraries/objective-c-interop.md

    }
```

### Callbacks and multithreading limitations

While `ffigen` does support converting
Dart functions to Objective-C blocks,
there are some limitations to keep in mind

> when using them.

Reviewer: This intro sounds like the points below are only about blocks, but the API threading limitations (especially the main thread limitation) apply to *all* calls, regardless of whether or not they involve callbacks.

1. Dart isolates are not the same thing as threads.
   An isolate is not guaranteed to run on a particular thread,
   and the VM may change which thread an isolate is running on
   without warning.
   There is an [open feature request][] to allow isolates to be
   pinned to specific theads.
2. Most Apple APIs don't have any guarantees about
   which thread a callback will be run on.

> 3. Many Apple APIs can only be called from the main thread,

Reviewer: I would say
> `Many Apple APIs are [not thread safe](https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/Cocoa/Conceptual/Multithreading/ThreadSafetySummary/ThreadSafetySummary.html). In addition, most APIs that involve UI interaction can only be called on the main thread, also known in Flutter as the platform thread.`

Because of the lack of thread pinning, even using a non-main-thread-only object for across multiple calls is not safe if I'm understanding point 1 correctly.

Author: I think not thread hostile is good enough. Assuming that the user is interacting with the object from a single isolate, that isolate is only going to be run on one thread at a time. But yeah, I'll reword this to capture that.

   also known in Flutter as the platform thread.
   This includes any APIs that involve UI interaction.

Points 1 and 2 mean that a callback created in one isolate
may be invoked on a thread running a different isolate,
or no isolate at all.

> This will cause your app to crash.

Reviewer 2: Will it crash, or just it might crash?

Author: @dcharkes I think there's an assert in the FFI trampoline that checks for a current isolate, right?

Reviewer 3: Correct.

runtime/vm/runtime_entry.cc

```c++
// Not registered as a runtime entry because we can't use Thread to look it up.
static Thread* GetThreadForNativeCallback(uword callback_id,
                                          uword return_address) {
  Thread* const thread = Thread::Current();
  if (thread == nullptr) {
    FATAL("Cannot invoke native callback outside an isolate.");
  }
  if (thread->no_callback_scope_depth() != 0) {
    FATAL("Cannot invoke native callback when API callbacks are prohibited.");
  }
  if (thread->is_unwind_in_progress()) {
    FATAL("Cannot invoke native callback while unwind error propagates.");
  }
  if (!thread->IsMutatorThread()) {
    FATAL("Native callbacks must be invoked on the mutator thread.");
  }
```

Reviewer: But right before that it says "may be invoked on a thread running a different isolate, or no isolate at all". The former won't crash, it will just have unexpected behavior, right?

Author: Later in `GetThreadForNativeCallback` there's a check that the isolate is correct:

```c++
thread->VerifyCallbackIsolate(callback_id, return_address);
```

Reviewer 4: Sounds like this statement is correct for both scenarios, can this be resolved @liamappelbe?

Author: I think so.

You can work around this limitation by writing some
Objective-C code that intercepts your callback and
forwards it over a [`Dart_Port`]({{site.dart-api}}/dart-ffi/NativePort.html)
to the correct isolate.
For an example of this,
see the implementation of [`package:cupertino_http`][].

Point 3 means that directly calling some Apple APIs
using the generated Dart bindings may be thread unsafe.
This could crash your app, or do other unpredicable things.
You can work around this limitation by writing some
Objective-C code that dispatches your call
to the main thread.

> One way of doing this is to use [`performSelectorOnMainThread`][].

Reviewer: This is kind of an annoying API to use correctly because of the way it handles arguments. I would suggest pointing people to GCD instead, or maybe NSOperationQueues. @jmagman may have more thoughts on this.

    }
```

### Callbacks and multithreading limitations

Multithreading issues are the biggest limitation
of Dart's experimental support for Objective-C interop.

> While `ffigen` does support converting

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
While `ffigen` supports converting
```

Dart functions to Objective-C blocks,

> these limitations must be kept in mind.

Reviewer: Having another sentence between "these limitations" and the list of limitations makes this hard to follow, I think. How about folding this whole sentence into the list, since it only actually applies to part of it? The second bullet point could become:

> While `ffigen` supports converting Dart functions to Objective-C blocks, most Apple APIs don't have any guarantees about the the thread on which a callback will run.

instead of having this sentence in the intro at all.

Author: Done

> these limitations must be kept in mind when using them.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
these limitations must be kept in mind.
```

> These issues also affect the use of certain Apple APIs.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The following issues also affect the use of certain Apple APIs:
```

> 1. Dart isolates are not the same thing as threads.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Dart isolates are not the same thing as threads.
```

>    An isolate is not guaranteed to run on a particular thread,

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   An isolate isn't guaranteed to run on a particular thread,
```

>    and the VM may change which thread an isolate is running on

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   and the VM might change which thread an isolate is running on
```

   without warning.
   There is an [open feature request][] to allow isolates to be
   pinned to specific theads.

> 2. Most Apple APIs don't have any guarantees about

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Most Apple APIs don't have any guarantees about
```

>    which thread a callback will be run on.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   on which thread a callback will run.
```

> 3. Most APIs that involve UI interaction

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
* Most APIs that involve UI interaction
```

   can only be called on the main thread,

>    also known in Flutter as the platform thread.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   also called the _platform_ thread in Flutter.
```

> 4. Many Apple APIs are [not thread safe][].

Reviewer 4: Seems the others are part of an unordered list, but this is numbered:

```suggestion
* Many Apple APIs are [not thread safe][].
```

> Points 1 and 2 mean that a callback created in one isolate
> may be invoked on a thread running a different isolate,
> or no isolate at all.
> This will cause your app to crash.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The first two points mean that a callback created in one isolate
might be invoked on a thread running in a different isolate,
or in no isolate at all.
This will cause your app to crash.
```

The phrase "...a callback created in one isolate might be invoked on a thread running in a different isolate..."  confuses me. Do you mean to say that it might be invoked on a different isolate?

Author: Isolates run on threads, not the other way round. So the phrasing suggested here, "a thread running in a different isolate", is inaccurate. But maybe if I explain the situation more fully to you, you can help boil it down to something our users will follow.

Basically, the app has multiple isolates, and multiple threads that run those isolates. Each thread can only run one isolate at a time, or can be running other non-Dart code that's not part of an isolate. Additionally, an isolate can be run on one thread, then paused, and later resumed on a different thread.

When a user converts a Dart function to an Objective-C block, the Dart code inside that block is permanently associated with the isolate it was created in. So if Objective-C later runs that block on a different thread that is running the wrong isolate, or no isolate, or runs it on the same thread but the isolate has moved to a different thread, it will crash.

Author: Reworded point 1 to make this a bit clearer. I could also make a diagram if you think this is still unclear.

You can work around this limitation by writing some
Objective-C code that intercepts your callback and
forwards it over a [`Dart_Port`]({{site.dart-api}}/dart-ffi/NativePort.html)
to the correct isolate.
For an example of this,
see the implementation of [`package:cupertino_http`][].

> Point 3 means that directly calling some Apple APIs
> using the generated Dart bindings may be thread unsafe.
> This could crash your app, or do other unpredicable things.
> You can work around this limitation by writing some
> Objective-C code that dispatches your call
> to the main thread.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The third point means that directly calling some Apple APIs
using the generated Dart bindings might be thread unsafe.
This could crash your app, or cause other unpredictable behavior.
You can work around this limitation by writing some
Objective-C code that dispatches your call
to the main thread.
```

main thread => main isolate ???

Author: No, thread is correct.

For more information, see the [Objective-C dispatch documentaion][].

> Regarding point 4,

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Regarding the last point,
```

> although Dart isolates can switch threads,

Reviewer 5: I admit it. I'm confused by talking about isolates AND threads. Unless you mean isolates on Dart and threads on iOS.

Author: Hmmm. This whole section is about the relationship between threads and isolates. Maybe it needs to be clarified.

Author: Mentioned that this is about the relationship between threads and isolates in the intro.

they only ever run on one thread at a time.
So, the API you are interacting with
doesn't necessarily have to be thread safe,

> as long as it is not thread hostile,

Reviewer 4: Does "thread hostile" need to be clarified or would readers of this section already understand this term?

Author: It might be nice to link to a definition, but I'm not sure what would be official enough.

Author: Alternatively, this thread hostility clause is sort of saying the same thing as the thread constraints clause, so maybe we just remove this bit?

Reviewer 4: Reading through this again, I think it's fine, especially with that extra clause. If there's confusion in the future we can revisit the mention. Thanks!

> they are only ever run on one thread at a time.
> So the API you are interacting with
> doesn't necessarily have to be thread safe,
> as long as it is not thread hostile,
> and doesn't have constraints about which thread it is called from.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
they only ever run on one thread at a time.
So, the API you are interacting with
doesn't necessarily have to be thread safe,
as long as it is not thread hostile,
and doesn't have constraints about which thread it's called from.
```

    }
```

### Callbacks and multithreading limitations

Multithreading issues are the biggest limitation
of Dart's experimental support for Objective-C interop.
These limitations are due to the relationship between
Dart isolates and OS threads,
and the way Apple's APIs handle multithreading:

* Dart isolates are not the same thing as threads.
  Isolates run on threads,
  but aren't guaranteed to run on any particular thread,
  and the VM might change which thread an isolate is running on
  without warning.
  There is an [open feature request][] to allow isolates to be

>   pinned to specific theads.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  pinned to specific threads.
```

* While `ffigen` supports converting
  Dart functions to Objective-C blocks,
  most Apple APIs don't make any guarantees about
  on which thread a callback will run.
* Most APIs that involve UI interaction
  can only be called on the main thread,
  also called the _platform_ thread in Flutter.
* Many Apple APIs are [not thread safe][].

The first two points mean that a callback created in one isolate

> might be invoked on a thread running a different isolate,

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
might be invoked on a thread running on a different isolate,
```

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure about this one, as the isolates run on threads, not the other way around.

or no isolate at all.
This will cause your app to crash.
You can work around this limitation by writing some
Objective-C code that intercepts your callback and
forwards it over a [`Dart_Port`]({{site.dart-api}}/dart-ffi/NativePort.html)
to the correct isolate.
For an example of this,
see the implementation of [`package:cupertino_http`][].

The third point means that directly calling some Apple APIs
using the generated Dart bindings might be thread unsafe.
This could crash your app, or cause other unpredictable behavior.
You can work around this limitation by writing some
Objective-C code that dispatches your call
to the main thread.

> For more information, see the [Objective-C dispatch documentaion][].

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For more information, see the [Objective-C dispatch documentation][].
```

[`duration`]: {{page.appledoc}}/avfaudio/avaudioplayer/1388395-duration?language=objc
[`play`]: {{page.appledoc}}/avfaudio/avaudioplayer/1387388-play?language=objc
[Swift documentation]: {{page.appledoc}}/swift/importing-swift-into-objective-c
[open feature request]: https://github.com/dart-lang/sdk/issues/46943
[`package:cupertino_http`]: https://github.com/dart-lang/http/blob/master/pkgs/cupertino_http/src/CUPHTTPClientDelegate.m
[not thread safe]: https://developer.apple.com/library/archive/documentation/Cocoa/Conceptual/Multithreading/ThreadSafetySummary/ThreadSafetySummary.html

> [Objective-C dispatch documentaion]: {{page.appledoc}}/dispatch?language=objc

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[Objective-C dispatch documentation]: {{page.appledoc}}/dispatch?language=objc
```
